# Glossary

This page provides a list of glossary terms used in this guide.

* Amazon Pinpoint

  Amazon Pinpoint is a fully managed messaging service which enables you to send notifications directly to your customers.
* CVV

  Card Verification Value. A 3-digit number which provides added security.
* CVV2

  The Card Verification Value (CVV) on a credit card or debit card is a 3 digit number on VISA, MasterCard and Discover branded credit and debit cards. Cardholder's are typically required to enter the CVV during any online or cardholder not present transactions. CVV numbers are also known as CSC numbers (Card Security Code), as well as CVV2 numbers, which are the same as CVV numbers, except that they have been generated by a 2nd generation process that makes them harder to guess.
* EHI

  The External Host Interface (EHI) is a Thredd system that enables Thredd customers to receive and respond to real-time transaction data as well as financial messages.
* PAN

  The card’s 16-digit primary account number (PAN) that is typically embossed on a physical card.
* PCI

  Payment Card Industry. This body sets standards and security requirements for organisations that process debit and credit card transactions.
* Personal Identification Number (PIN)

  The 4 to 12 digit value known only to the cardholder, which they may enter at POS or ATM to authenticate themselves.
* Smart Client

  Smart Client is Thredd's legacy desktop application for managing your account on the Thredd Platform.
* SMS

  SMS (Short Message Service) is a text messaging service component of most telephone, internet, and mobile device systems. It uses standardised communication protocols that let mobile devices exchange short text messages.
* Thredd Portal

  Thredd Portal is Thredd's new web application for managing your cards and transactions on the Thredd Platform
* Thredd Web Services API

  Thredd’s SOAP-based Application Program Interface (API) which enables integration of your systems with Thredd.
* Validation

  Checks to confirm the card is valid, such as CHIP cryptograms, mag-stripe data (if available) and expiry date
* VROL System

  Visa Dispute Resolution Online system, provided by Visa for managing transaction disputes.