# Glossary

This page provides a list of glossary terms used in this guide.

* BIN

  The Bank Identification Number (BIN) is the first four or six numbers on a payment card, which identifies the institution that issues the card
* Card Scheme (Network)

  Card network, such as MasterCard or Visa, responsible for managing transactions over the network and for arbitration of any disputes.
* Cardholder

  Consumer or account holder who is provided with a card to enable them to make purchases.
* CVV

  The Card Verification Value (CVV) on a credit card or debit card is a 3 digit number on VISA, MasterCard and Discover branded credit and debit cards. Cardholder's are typically required to enter the CVV during any online or cardholder not present transactions. CVV numbers are also known as CSC numbers (Card Security Code), as well as CVV2 numbers, which are the same as CVV numbers, except that they have been generated by a 2nd generation process that makes them harder to guess.
* CVV2

  The Card Verification Value (CVV) on a credit card or debit card is a 3 digit number on VISA, MasterCard and Discover branded credit and debit cards. Cardholder's are typically required to enter the CVV during any online or cardholder not present transactions. CVV numbers are also known as CSC numbers (Card Security Code), as well as CVV2 numbers, which are the same as CVV numbers, except that they have been generated by a 2nd generation process that makes them harder to guess.
* One Time Password (OTP)

  A password that is valid for a single use only. During an authentication session (where the authentication type is with OTP SMS or OTP Email), the cardholder must enter this OTP to authenticate.
* PAN

  The card’s 16-digit primary account number (PAN) that is typically embossed on a physical card.
* PCI Compliance

  The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is an information security standard for organisations that handle credit cards from the major Card Schemes. All customers who handle customer card data must be compliant with this standard. See: https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/pci\_security
* Product Setup Form (PSF)

  A spreadsheet that provides details of your Thredd account setup. The details are used to configure your Thredd account.
* Second Payment Services Directive (PSD2)

  PSD2 is a European regulation for electronic payment services. It seeks to make payments more secure, boost innovation and help banking services adapt to new technologies. The regulations are available here: https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/payment-services-psd-2-directive-eu-2015-2366\_en
* Thredd Public Token

  A unique 9-digit number assigned by Thredd, to represent the linked card. The public token can be used instead of the PAN for all web services API requests.